I recently asked Chachi BT what the
number one most common personal fear in
the world is its response public
speaking in this video I am going to
give you seven ways to reduce your
speaking anxiety and to start off I'm
going to explain why public speaking is
such a common fear because it doesn't
have so much to do with standing on a
stage speaking in front of people it has
to do with the social fear the potential
Jud judgement of what people might think
because let's face it when we deliver a
presentation there are many people in
the audience and all of their time is
incredibly valuable so for us it's a lot
of pressure to ensure that we are
providing those people with value and
not wasting their time I want you to
know right off the start that this
nervousness this anxiety around public
speaking is incredibly normal whether
you are a seasoned polished even keynote
speaker keynote professional speakers
still get nervous before they deliver
their speeches as do brand new speakers
it is very common but there are seven
key ways to deal with those public
speaking nerves the first powerful way
to deal with public speaking anxiety is
to deliver humor early on in your speech
or speaking opportunity humor is one of
the most powerful tools we have as
public speakers because it does two
things first it relaxes the audience
when an audience is sat in front of a
speaker there's many things running
through each of those individuals Minds
such as is this going to be interesting
is this going to be entertaining but as
soon as that audience starts laughing
instantly they relax they know that the
speaker knows what he or she is doing
and it's going to be an enjoyable speech
they're already laughing but the second
thing humor does which is really
powerful is it gives this boost of
confidence to you the speaker because
when you hear an audience laughing that
is a universal sign that they are
enjoying themselves when you're on stage
and you hear that laughter it's an
instant dose of confidence the second
thing you can do to reduce your speaking
anxiety is bring water with you on stage
the reason this is important is that our
bodies do some funny things when we are
delivering speeches and something that's
very common is many speakers mouths go
dry we get that that stickiness whereas
if you have water and you can hydrate
and you strategically do that in between
sentences that doesn't look odd to the
audience that looks completely normal
but I have seen some speakers take the
stage get that dry mouth and then really
it unravels on them because they become
self-conscious about it the audience
notices it so please bring water on
stage with you speaking of things that
our bodies do that we can't really
control that leads me into my third tip
and that is to bring a binder or
something heavy along with your notes if
you have notes now if there's a lectern
or a stand up on the stage that's a Fine
Place to put your notes and you don't
have to wor about this but sometimes we
go to the front of the room and we have
to be reading off of a piece of paper
I've talked about this before iide you
don't want to use notes in your speech
but this is if you absolutely need to
but what happens is our hands shake when
we speak because we have that
nervousness or that anxiety and if you
have a single piece of paper in your
hand that is going to Rattle as you're
reading off of it and it's going to
vibrate and people will notice that and
you will notice it and it will make you
even more nervous but if you have
something heavier like a full notepad
something that has a little bit more
structure to it that's harder to notice
when it's shaking your hand could be
shaking a bit and because this is
heavier you won't be able to shake the
full binder or notepad that you have
behind the piece of paper so bring
something heavy if you have a single
piece of paper with notes the fourth way
to reduce speaking anxiety is something
called box breathing so the concept of
box breathing is to really take control
of your breath and calm your body down
because we probably have all sorts of
nerves before we step on stage and the
concept is that you start with 4 seconds
inhaling then hold for 4 seconds then
exhale for 4
seconds hold for 4 seconds and then
start back up and it makes this box like
structure when you follow that 4 seconds
hold 4 seconds exhale hold and that is
going to calm your body down right
before you get on stage I use these
breathing exercises almost every time I
give a presentation and they make a
world of difference for me my next tip
is if you have the opportunity to get to
The Venue a little bit early stand at
the front of the room where you will be
speaking or on stage and visualize ize
yourself giving the presentation even
though you're in a room full of empty
chairs imagine that those chairs are
full stand in that spot look out and it
will reduce the anxiety when you do step
on stage to actually give that speech
because one of the reasons people get
nervous is that the first time they step
on stage that's the first time they're
seeing that vantage point and all of the
eyes on them but if you've already gone
through that that process of
visualization it's going to make that
moment when you do begin your speech a
little bit less daunting I recently had
the chance to do an interview with a
wonderful woman named iry who has
another YouTube channel and in that
conversation she shared a great idea
with me which is doing the power pose so
for some that's the hand at the side
almost like the Wonder Woman type pose
with their hands like this other ways
it's to stretch out your arms but it's
these powerful poses that get your body
ready for action and I think a key piece
here is before you step on stage stand
up be stood up at the side of the room
rather than seated because if you're
called up to give a presentation and
you've been sat down for the last hour
now that's your body going from a
restful State instantly into a high
anxiety point in time where you
delivering a speech and you're much
better off to already be standing
already being with that power pose in an
action position ready to go and deliver
that speech the final tip I have for you
is to practice this is a common theme on
every one of my videos but this is
probably the single most important thing
you can do before delivering a speech or
giving any sort of presentation because
the more times we've run through
something while practicing in front of
people by ourselves whatever that looks
like the more comfortable we're going to
be with that content and the less likely
we're going to freeze on stage and
totally forget what it is that we are
going to talk about there are a number
of ways to practice your public speaking
skills one of course is Toast Masters
I'm a huge advocate of Toast Masters
International and many cities have
multiple options of Toastmasters clubs
but the other opportunity to practice if
you don't have access to toast Masters
is through an app that I've discovered
called SPO SPO is one of the best public
speaking apps I've personally
experienced and there's a link below in
my show notes that has a 15% off
discount to the pro version of SPO that
unlocks all of the features so if that's
something you're interested in check it
out and get that discount I hope these
tips on how to reduce speaking anxiety
have been beneficial to you if they were
let me know in the comments as always
thank you so much for taking the time to
watch my videos and keep an eye on this
channel many more great videos to help
you become a more impactful Communicator
are on the way